---
authors: Iris Murdoch
title: The Nice and the Good
layout: book
link: true
---
Dont know what it is about Murdoch's worlds that makes them so distinctive. The elements are almost uniform, a character, their decisions, the subsequent muddle, a medium for it all to swim in. All of it drifting on some indescribable ether in a universe similiar to ours, save for one metaphysical law or the other. The way the characters grow and shrink. Seemingly grand one moment, small and despicable the next. The effect is jarring but Murdoch somehow cuts through the muddle and you follow her obediently but with an unsure gait.

The haze is never really dispelled by the characters either. A Coen-esque Satanic conspiracy feebly brews in the underground cellar of British CIA but it fizzles with the suicide of its mastermind, which in turn starts off the story's timeline. This insinuates the reader into the house of British CIA head, another British stiff named Octavian. The Satanic conspiracy I mentioned earlier is the most asinine cult involving chicken slaughter, and other textbook inversions of worship. Thats it. It's the saddest shit to see because Murdoch's metaphysic does not seem to accomadate Satan and so we see a group of men scuttling in underground chambers scheming to subvert Christian morality by scribbling little runes into walls. There is a queer anxiety in witnessing actions being deliberated upon to no profound consequence, in the questions it raises against the grand schemes personal to us. The Coen's do it so perfectly well, contorting below-average-intelligences into absurd situations by pulling at their little ambitions, to deftly pull the rug and expose the lack of meaning that had always lurked underneath with its gaping maw. Then Fin, to great applause and a heady warmth from having seen our fears lived out. Murdoch does not give us that catharsis, the anxiety builds  via espionage, polyamory, infidelity and mistruths. (What is communication and is it ever truthful within the web of our lives)

-tbc-